---
layout: post
title: Play with D3 (2)
---

## Click action

Michael Bostock just posted a new post at medium. He gave in depth explaination on the changes that he is about to make to D3. It was a long post. I wasn't able to read it word by word. But I am looking forward to all the possible changes. 

I now feel very comfortable making charts with bars, dots. I think I got a basic understanding of the transition as well. I read through some good demo. It seems that if you patient enough, you can make all sorts of things with bars and dots....

Now, What I hope to learn is the interaction part. How DOM is reacting to clicking, draging sort of actions..... 



<script src="http://d3js.org/d3.v3.min.js"></script>

<div id="test"></div>
<script>

var margin = {top:30, right:20, bottom: 30, left: 50};
    width = 1000 - margin.left -margin.right;
    height = 500 - margin.top - margin.bottom;

    var svg = d3.select("#test")
        .append("svg")
            .attr("width", width + margin.left + margin.right)
            .attr("height", height + margin.top + margin.bottom)
        .append("g")
            .attr("transform", "translate(" + margin.left + "," + margin.top + ")");
 
   function randomValue() {
        return Math.round(Math.random() * 200);
    };

    var circle1 = svg.append("circle")
        .attr("cx", 100)
        .attr("cy", 100)
        .attr("r", 45)
        .attr("text", "spatial analysis")
        .style("fill","green");

    var circle2 = svg.append("circle")
        .attr("cx", 100)
        .attr("cy", 100)
        .attr("r", 55)
        .attr("text", "spatial analysis")
        .style("fill","blue");

    var circle3 = svg.append("circle")
        .attr("cx", 100)
        .attr("cy", 100)
        .attr("r", 35)
        .attr("text", "spatial analysis")
        .style("fill","purple");

     //在1秒（1000毫秒）内将圆心坐标由100变为300


    setInterval(function () {
      circle1.transition()
        .duration(2000)
        .text("spatial")
        .attr("cx", randomValue())
        .attr("cy", randomValue());


      circle3.transition()
        .duration(500)
        .text("GIS")
        .attr("cx", randomValue())
        .attr("cy", randomValue());

 

    }, 3000);

    circle1.on("mouseover", function() {
    	 circle2.transition()
        .duration(100)
        .text("statistics")
        .attr("cx", randomValue()*2)
        .attr("cy", randomValue()*2);




    });



</script>






